hello i'm keith kendrick magazine's
editor of bbc good food
and i'm here with food content creator
ernestina aggie
by day she's a marketing manager for a
bank but by
weekends and evenings she creates
fantastic
uh ghanaian food some of which features
on the good food world in your kitchen
video series
today she's going to tell us three
things we need to know about ghanaian
cooking
hi ernestina so talk us through the
essentials of ghanaian
so ghanaian cooking where do i even
begin like
it is just amazing it's so flavoursome
and there's just so many ingredients
that go
together of it and if you like spice a
lot of our dishes are quite spicy so
there's so many ingredients i mean we
use plantain
to cook and i love plantain because it's
just so versatile
you can boil plantain you can fry
plantain you can mash the plantain and
there's also
loads of different types of plantains so
there's the green plantain which we use
used to boil
and then you have the yellow ripe
plantain that you can fry and it's quite
sweet as well
and a lot of people sometimes ask me
what is plantain and the best way for me
to describe it
is like the banana's cousin so like
that's one of the main ingredients that
we use and one of the most popular
dishes in ghana
is called fufu where we use boiled
plantain and cassava and we pound it
together
and you can serve that with many soups
like peanut soup
light soup fish soup so all types of
soup so
that is one of the main dishes that we
we have there
that sounds fantastic um so what what
what other dishes would you
uh would you recommend that people could
perhaps recreate at home
so one of my other favorites which i
always have when i go to ghana is called
grill tilapia so the tilapia fish and
basically what people can do is make
their own marinade with using scotch
bonnet
garlics onions and whatever you want to
add
garlic powder onion powder and anything
you mix that together
and use it as a marinade and put it on
top of the fish and inside the fish
and just grill it in the oven it's such
an easy and simple um recipe i've
actually got a full recipe on my youtube
video
and you can pair that with fried
plantain fried yam and it's just so nice
and we also have it with our black chili
sauce so that is something i would
definitely recommend for people to have
is it quite a firm fish is it tilapia it
is
it is very firm and very tasty and very
easy to make
very easy one of my favorites makes it
perfect for grilling
yes yes very perfect for grilling yeah
so
what's what's meal times like you know
in a typical gardening
community you know the rituals
traditions anything that's kind of
essential to the whole
experience one thing i love about
ghanaian um cooking and this is that it
brings people together
so whenever i go to ghana i have all my
aunties and
cousins and everyone is cooking together
and we don't tend to make
um food in small portions we use like
large pots and for example the fruitful
i
talked about earlier um you kind of use
like a motion um a pounding motion to
make that so you have someone that's
pounding
the fulfill and then you have someone
that's flipping it so it's like teamwork
makes a dream work and makes an amazing
meal so
you kind of bring everyone together and
then we also once it's time to eat we
have large dishes which
which we serve it in and everyone kind
of like eats at the same time
the same houses so i just i just love
ghanian food it just brings
everyone together because everyone will
have a job to do there's so many
components
from slicing all of the onions to
washing this to you know seasoning this
is so many different components so
it just brings everyone together really
it sounds great uh
in your uh world in your kitchen video
yeah you were cooking
it was it was uh garden eggs
garden eggs boiled plantain and you used
a very special kind of grinding bowl i
think
yeah so when it comes to cooking that
pot is like my best friend
so the easiest way to describe it it's
like a manual blender
so people call me a san catina because i
just i just love that pot
so it's a clay earthware pot and you
just slice for example your onions your
garlic your scotch bonnet
you put it in the pot and then you've
got something called the tapoli which
you use to grind
and because the pot has ridges in it it
makes it
easier to grind it and it kind of
formulates into this paste and i really
love using this pot because um it saves
you from you know using a blender where
you have to add water which kind of
dilutes the flavor
so that's why i just love that pot and
it's not just used to
cook it's also a pot that we used to
serve our food and eat from
um typically for food or maybe something
like banco and things like that so yeah
that is like my
favorite favorite part it just looks so
efficient and easy to use once you've
got that technique that rocking
technique sorted out then i think
it's all in the wrist once you've got
the technique sorted out that's fine and
you won't need to go to the gym for your
arms i mean i mean
the sunken pot works out my arms now i'm
good in that department
absolutely brilliant i mean people have
got to check that out on
on the world in your kitchen video and
on bbc good food
um ernestina thanks so much for joining
us today it's been
it's been really really insightful i
didn't know uh much about ghanaian
cooking but i know i really feel
informed now um and everybody go and
check out
uh ernestina's instagram feed on at
etina let me spell that e t i n
a a i think i've got that right yes you
have thank you so much
it's been a pleasure talking to you and
one of the best interviews i've ever had
in a while so thank you so much it's
been such a pleasure
and i do hope you make your own garden
extreme as well and show me how it um
turns out
i'm going to pay you the money for that
comment later
thank you bye